---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
image:
---

My interest in computer science actually began as early as my school years. Though there was no strong focus on computer science within the school itself this certainly was an interest that I passionately pursued in my own time. For example, on my initiative and through my research, I developed my software to manage all my passwords this was considered by my teachers to be a great intuition of computer programming at the age of twelve. It also meant that I did not have much time during school to pursue this except for my summer vacations. Each summer vacation was like a software engineering internship in my research and development laboratory at home. I thoroughly enjoyed taking full avail of this time to improve and gain new programming skills. After learning OOP principles and the programming language C#, I migrated my existing software written in Visual Basic to C# at the age of fifteen.

***

However, this did not mean that I neglected my core studies whilst at school either. In the absence of a directly related subject at school, I found myself thriving at mathematics and physics which my analytical mind adjusted to very well. Accordingly, I joined the school’s physics Olympiad team. Since my school had no Informatics Olympiad team, I opted for Mathematics and Physics instead. I achieved the following during these participations; 1st degree in Regional Math Olympiad 2007, Gold Medal in Republic Physics Olympiad 2008, Silver Medal in Republic Physics Olympiad 2009, 1st degree in “Youth Intelligence” Physics Olympiad 2009, 4th degree in Republic Physics Olympiad 2010. It was clear that both Mathematics and Physics were fortés of mine, however, I opted not to proceed with them as I remained determined to pursue Computer Science. Nevertheless, both skills served me very well in that they gained me the analytical thinking ability needed and cemented my understanding of the fact that learning how things work is more important than memorizing them.

***

Once I graduated from school I successfully applied to our prestigious Azerbaijan State Oil & Industry University in Baku and enrolled in a Bachelor’s of Science in Computer Engineering. This opened my mind to significant new academic pursuits and upon noticing and considering my interest in Fuzzy Logic, my professors inspired me towards what would soon become the keystone of both my academic and professional career; artificial intelligence. Once I was introduced to AI, I fully dedicated myself to it as my specialization however I did not lose my penchant for extra-curricular projects during my tenure at university. For example, I worked as a volunteer at the IGF 2012 event organized by the United Nations and also received a job offer to work both during and upon completion of my studies. I accepted and started as a Junior Engineer. This work coincided with my time at University and my tenure commencement coincided with staff reductions. Therefore my responsibilities increased significantly as I rose to this challenge. Within two months I had learned the current systems and then applied my optimal changes to them. This meant that by the time I had reached the last year of my university, I was already in senior engineer and team leader positions at work. My essential benefit from the first job was the ability to stay focused and calm under stress even through issues that could happen unexpectedly as a part of the deployment process. Of course, none of this meant I was neglecting my University work. For the final year project, I chose a thesis topic about the “Type-2 Fuzzy Logic-Based Decision-Making System” and developed software in Java that makes decisions based on Fuzzy Logic. I was also on the search to determine my future path in Computer Science. That search was still in progress when I received the job offer from Azercell, the largest telecom company in the country. After working in different Big-Data environments at my current company, I had already determined my path to Machine Learning. After separately enrolling in courses of online learning platforms like Coursera, edX, MIT OCW (MOOC Platforms). I then graduated with a GPA of 3.87 out of 4.0 (94/100) and pursued my professional career at Azercell Telecom.

***

I was firmly placed as a senior engineer and technical lead at Azercell, with Telecom products and services, serving 10 million subscribers. I was coordinating the technical team of ten people in one of our most critical units doing solution defense and proposing different solutions based on business requirements. Previously, I have implemented Diameter Protocol (which is widely used between telecom nodes) on the Python programming language. I am also currently contributing to the open-source machine learning community on my GitHub and publishing my research on machine learning. AI is not only a new field but also is a philosophy and brings some philosophic aspects within itself. We engage in discussions and conduct brainstorming from time to time about these profound aspects of AI. I am also particularly proud to say that I have also served as a mentor at the Azercell-Academy to help internees learn about the distributed systems and computing, Machine Learning. I have been told that this has been particularly useful Due to the lack of resources and industry standards related to AI in my country.

***

Currently I'm working for Toptal company, as senior machine learning engineer, specialized on Generative Neural Networks.